---
ID: 302
post_title: 'Story #1'
author: Selah
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: http://merelearning.ca/selah/story1/
published: true
post_date: 2014-10-12 22:55:39
---
The first couple of weeks of this independent study was character development, plot setting, and trying to figure out exactly what I wanted to do.

I had a general idea when I began. I wanted it to be a post-apocalyptic type of story where a plague had ravaged the world. The main character had to get her dad across X amount of land, in X amount of time. But now, after actually finishing the planning, and creating my virus, I have a much better idea of what I'm actually doing.

The main character, Gabriella, has to get her father from Mexico City to a hospital in Florida, Orlando. Her dad gets this deadly virus called Mordi, and has about 9 weeks to live.

The virus, Mordi, pretty much just slowly sucks away your will to live.

It starts with a rash, then you get a fever. After the fever goes down a little bit, you start throwing up. Then your appetite vanishes, but since you're throwing up, it doesn't make much of a difference.

When you are starting to starve, you stop puking enough to force some food down your throat. Then, you get achey joints. And when I say achey joints, I mean you feel like all your joints are going through a freak growth spurt on steroids.

Now since you're head doesn't really have any joints, it feels left out of all the aching, so it decides to add migraines onto the list of symptoms. After that, you start coughing blood, then,  just the cherry on top of everything, you get hallucinations. By then death feels like a warm blanket on a cold winter night.

The virus started as a parasite in meat. You would eat it, then your body would absorb the parasite which would become a virus that would then be spread through any and all bodily fluids.

Now the fun thing about this virus is that it started out really fast. In the beginning, it took about three days to kill you. Then, as time passed, it took longer and longer and more symptoms were added on.  Since it was always changing, a cure could not be developed fast enough.

I'm not 100% sure that this is actually possible, but, well, zombies aren't either and people love those.

In the story, Mordi has killed off about 3/4's of the population in 14 years. Gariella and her dad, Cessain, have managed to avoid Mordi, but their loved ones have not been so lucky.

So there's the general gist of Story #1. Let me know what you think. I also have not decided on a title yet, so suggestions are welcome.